DOCS-5803 CI Visibility Quality Gates Documentation (#18954)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/quality_gates/_index.md

---
title: Quality Gates
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to use Quality Gates in your pipeline.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_integration/tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Test Visibility"
---

## Overview

> {{< callout url="#" header="false" >}}

Reviewer: @alai97 Do you know why this is different from what we have for [static analysis](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/content/en/continuous_integration/static_analysis/_index.md?plain=1#L17-L21)?

Author: Also we will want to add a Google Form link for the private beta form, right @KickingTheTV?

Reviewer 2: http://dtdg.co/code-quality

Author: ```suggestion
{{< callout url="http://dtdg.co/code-quality" header="false" >}}
```

Quality Gates Rules are in beta.
{{< /callout >}}

> Quality Gates allows you to gate your workflows based on signals in Datadog.

Reviewer: I added this just as an initial description, but I don't like it that much. @KickingTheTV do you have any suggestions on what to write for the Quality Gates overview?

Author: I think a definition of what a quality gate is and what the rules represent as the setup workflow would be good. Also we can maybe avoid using "workflow" specifically unless we are mentioning Workflow Automation (https://docs.datadoghq.com/service_management/workflows/) 🤔

Author: ```suggestion
Quality Gates allows you to gate your workflows based on signals in Datadog.  You can create two types of rules types: Static Analysis and Tests.
```

Reviewer: I changed it slighlty 😬

2. Evaluates all the impacted rules.
3. If one or more blocking rules fail, the command fails as well, blocking the pipeline.

<div class="alert alert-danger"><strong>Note:</strong> for the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)
are sent to Datadog **before** the <code>datadog-ci gate evaluate</code> command is executed.
Otherwise, the rules might have an incorrect behavior due to the absence of the events.
</div>

The command requires the `DATADOG_API_KEY` and `DATADOG_APP_KEY` environment variables to point to your [Datadog API Key][5]
and [Datadog APP Key][6]. Also, you need to define the `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` environment
variable as `true`. Optionally, you can specify the `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to point to a specific datadog site.
The default site is US1 (datadoghq.com).

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=true DATADOG_API_KEY=<API_KEY> DATADOG_APP_KEY=<APP_KEY> datadog-ci gate evaluate
{{< /code-block >}}

The behavior of the command can be modified using the following flags:

> - **--fail-on-empty**: when this flag is specified, the command will fail if no matching rules were found in Datadog

Author: Can we try using `--fail-on-empty` instead of the bolding to see if that would show them as two dashes?

> - **--fail-on-empty**: when this flag is specified, the command will fail if no matching rules were found in Datadog

Reviewer: I've committed the change to try this out

> - **--fail-on-empty**: when this flag is specified, the command will fail if no matching rules were found in Datadog

Reviewer: I've changed it to code style and that is working fine, thanks! I'll keep it that way.

3. Define the rule scope. The rule scope defines when the rules should be evaluated. For example, you can scope a rule so that it is evaluated only on specific repositories and branches. To define the scope for a rule, switch to `select when to evaluate` and add included or excluded values for the scope name. More information on [rule scopes](#rule-scope).
4. Define the rule condition. The rule condition states in which scenario the rule fails, failing the related pipeline as well. You can select one of the existing rule conditions for the rule type you have selected.

   The following example shows how to create a static analysis rule that will fail when there are one or more static analysis violations with "error" severity and "security" category being introduced in a specific commit:

   {{< img src="ci/qg_rule_condition_sa_errors_security.png" alt="Rule for static analysis security errors" style="width:80%;">}}

5. Select whether the rule should block the pipeline or not when it fails. Non-blocking rules are still evaluated, but
they do not block the pipeline when they fail.
6. Select a rule name that describes the rule that you are creating.
7. Click **Save Rule**.

> A rule starts being evaluated as soon as it is created.

Reviewer: Oh yeah, right, it can be seen in that way. I wanted to state that there's no delay between when the rule is created and when it can be potentially evaluated, but I guess that can be implicit and I could remove this?

> A rule starts being evaluated as soon as it is created.

Author: ```suggestion
```

The rules that are retrieved vary based on the pipeline context, the [rules scopes](#rule-scope) and eventual [custom scopes](#custom-scope).
2. Evaluates all the impacted rules.
3. If one or more blocking rules fail, the command fails as well, blocking the pipeline.

<div class="alert alert-danger"><strong>Note:</strong> for the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)
are sent to Datadog <strong>before</strong> the <code>datadog-ci gate evaluate</code> command is executed.
Otherwise, the rules might have an incorrect behavior due to the absence of the events.
</div>

The command requires the `DATADOG_API_KEY` and `DATADOG_APP_KEY` environment variables to point to your [Datadog API Key][5]
and [Datadog Application Key][6]. Also, you need to set the `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` environment
variable as `true`. Optionally, you can specify the `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to point to a specific datadog site.
The default site is US1 (datadoghq.com).

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=true DATADOG_API_KEY=<API_KEY> DATADOG_APP_KEY=<APP_KEY> datadog-ci gate evaluate

> {{< /code-block >}}

Reviewer: Yeah, we usually do this at the beginning of the docs to mention that CI Visibility might not be supported based on the site (e.g. gov). I just added that, I forgot about it 😬 

Regarding this, do you think we should automatically include in the command the site in which they are viewing the documentation? To me it seems clear enough, but I'm the one that wrote this, so 😂

> {{< /code-block >}}

Reviewer 3: > Regarding this, do you think we should automatically include in the command the site in which they are viewing the documentation?

We should if possible IMO, it's not that it's unclear but if we gave them that they have one less thing to do after copy-pasting :)

> {{< /code-block >}}

Author: Ah yes, I can do this!

> {{< /code-block >}}

Reviewer: I should have added the Datadog inside in the command

- **--fail-if-unavailable**: when this flag is specified, the command fails if one or more rules could not be evaluated.
By default, the command succeeds.
- **--no-wait**: by default, the command waits a certain amount of time for the events (tests, static analysis violations) to arrive to Datadog.
This step is important as it makes sure that the events are queryable in Datadog before the rules are executed,
avoiding incorrect evaluation. If, in your pipeline, the job containing the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is
called several minutes after the related events are sent to Datadog, you could skip this waiting time by specifying the `--no-wait` flag.
Note that, if used incorrectly, this flag might result in inaccurate rule evaluations.

[Custom scopes](#custom-scope) can be added by using the following option one or more times: **--scope**:

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend --scope team:frontend
{{< /code-block >}}

The command logs can be examined to understand what was the overall gate evaluation status, along with information
about all the rules that were evaluated.

> {{< img src="ci/datadog_ci_gate_evaluate_logs.png" alt="Datadog-ci gate evaluate logs" style="width:90%;">}}

Reviewer 3: ❓ Could we include this as a code block, so actual text, instead of an image? It's not very readable IMO.

Reviewer: Mmm yeah that could be done, although a nice thing of images is that they can be zoomed in easily, whereas the code can't. It seems that we are just showing something here, they don't need to use it anywhere, so maybe the code won't be the right format to represent this (e.g. the copy button won't make much sense)

2. Define the scope name, for example, `team`.
3. Define the scope included or excluded values.

Differently from "branch" and "repository" scopes, custom scopes need to be provided in the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command using the **--scope** option.
For example, you can create a rule that is evaluated for the repository `example-repository` but only when the team is `backend`:

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_example_repository_team_backend.png" alt="Rule scope for example-repository and team backend" style="width:90%;">}}

The rule would be evaluated when this command is invoked in a CI pipeline of the `example-repository` repository:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend`

The rule would **not** be evaluated when the following commands are invoked instead:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate`, as it does not define any team.
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:api --scope team:frontend`, as it defines teams different from `backend`.

## Edit a rule

You can edit a Quality Gate rule by clicking on the edit icon in the [rules page][2]:

{{< img src="ci/edit_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Edit a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

## Delete a rule

> You can delete a Quality Gate rule by clicking on the deletion icon in the [rules page][2]:

Reviewer: Ops, forgot about it, done!

---
title: Quality Gates
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to use Quality Gates in your pipeline.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_integration/tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Test Visibility"
---

## Overview

{{< callout url="#" header="false" >}}
Quality Gates Rules are in beta.
{{< /callout >}}

Quality Gates allows you to gate your workflows based on signals in Datadog.

> For example, you can block a Pull Request from being merged if it introduces new flaky tests, even if the tests are passing.

Author: We can maybe add a link to the Flaky Test Management guide: https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_integration/guides/flaky_test_management/!

Reviewer: Yeah great point, added

> Using Quality Gates, you have control over what is merged into the default branch, and ultimately on what is deployed. ([AM] ADD SENTENCE)
> 
> ## Set up Quality Gates
> 
> There are two main steps required to set up Quality Gates:
> 1. Create one or more rules.
> 2. Add the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command in your CI pipeline.

Author: ```suggestion
By using Quality Gates, you have control over what is merged into the default branch, and ultimately on what is deployed. ([AM] ADD SENTENCE)

Create one or more Quality Gates rule, and add the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command in your CI pipeline.
```

Reviewer: Do you think this is more clear for customers to understand over the "two main steps" thing?

Reviewer: As this is a non-trivial feature to understand I would prefer to have a small setup section detailing that those are the only two steps required in order to set it up. if you think collapsing it into the main section is worth I can do it though. Feel free to unresolve the comment in case :)

## Create a rule

> To create Quality Gates rules for your organization, your user account must have the `quality_gate_rules_write` [permission][1].

Author: ```suggestion
To create Quality Gates rules for your organization, your account must have the [`quality_gate_rules_write` permission](#permission).
```

1. In Datadog, navigate to [**CI** > **Quality Gate Rules**][2] and click **+ New Rule**.
2. Select the rule type. You can choose between `Static Analysis` and `Test`.

> 3. Define the rule scope. The rule scope defines when the rules should be evaluated. For example, you can scope a rule so that
> it is evaluated only on specific repositories and branches. To define the scope for a rule, switch to "select when to evaluate" and add included
> or excluded values for the scope name. More information on rule scopes ([AM] ADD LINK TO SECTION BELOW).

Author: ```suggestion
3. Define the rule scope. The rule scope defines when the rules should be evaluated. For example, you can scope a rule so that it is evaluated only on specific repositories and branches. To define the scope for a rule, switch to `select when to evaluate` and add included or excluded values for the scope name. More information on rule scopes ([AM] ADD LINK TO SECTION BELOW).
```

> 4. Define the rule condition. The rule condition states in which scenario the rule fails, failing the related pipeline as well.
> You can select one of the existing rule conditions for the rule type you have selected.
> The following example shows how to create a static analysis rule that will fail when there are one or more static analysis
> violations with "error" severity and "security" category being introduced in a specific commit:
> {{< img src="ci/qg_rule_condition_sa_errors_security.png" alt="Rule for static analysis security errors" style="width:80%;">}}

Author: ```suggestion
4. Define the rule condition. The rule condition states in which scenario the rule fails, failing the related pipeline as well. You can select one of the existing rule conditions for the rule type you have selected.

   The following example shows how to create a static analysis rule that will fail when there are one or more static analysis violations with "error" severity and "security" category being introduced in a specific commit:
   
   {{< img src="ci/qg_rule_condition_sa_errors_security.png" alt="Rule for static analysis security errors" style="width:80%;">}}

```

> 5. Select whether the rule should block the pipeline or not when it fails. Non-blocking rules are still evaluated, but
> they do not block the pipeline when they fail.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Select whether or not the rule should block the pipeline when it fails. Non-blocking rules are still evaluated, but they do not block the pipeline when they fail.
```

Reviewer: The suggestion sounds weird to me:

Non-blocking rules are evaluated **still**, they do not block the pipeline when they fail. ?

6. Select a rule name that describes the rule that you are creating.

> 7. Click on **Save Rule**.

Author: ```suggestion
7. Click **Save Rule**.
```

A rule starts being evaluated as soon as it is created.

## Datadog-ci gate evaluate

> Quality Gates evaluation is invoked by calling the [`datadog-ci gate evaluate`][4] command. This command:

Author: ```suggestion

You can invoke the Quality Gates evaluation by calling the [`datadog-ci gate evaluate`][4] command. 

This command allows you to:

```

2. Evaluates all the matching rules.
3. If one or more blocking rules fail, the command fails as well, blocking the pipeline.

<div class="alert alert-danger"><strong>Note:</strong> for the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)
are sent to Datadog <strong>before</strong> the <code>datadog-ci gate evaluate</code> command is executed.
Otherwise, the rules might have an incorrect behavior due to the absence of the events.
</div>

The command requires the `DATADOG_API_KEY` and `DATADOG_APP_KEY` environment variables to point to your [Datadog API Key][5]
and [Datadog Application Key][6]. Also, you need to set the `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` environment
variable as `true`. Optionally, you can specify the `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to point to a specific datadog site (default value is `datadoghq.com`).

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=true DATADOG_SITE={{< region-param key="dd_site" >}} DATADOG_API_KEY=<API_KEY> DATADOG_APP_KEY=<APP_KEY> datadog-ci gate evaluate
{{< /code-block >}}

The behavior of the command can be modified using the following flags:

> - --fail-on-empty: when this flag is specified, the command fails if no matching rules were found in Datadog

Reviewer 4: You only specify the flag? Or do you need to set it as true?
Another thing, be aware that the double hyphen is being replaced by a dash.

Reviewer: You only specify the flag. Yes, I have [asked](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/18954#discussion_r1266978293) to @alai97 about this, we are trying to remove the bolding to see if that changes something

Reviewer 5: if we use the code markdown, will the double hyphen not be replaced?

Reviewer: It's working now

based on the current command scope. By default, the command succeeds.
- --fail-if-unavailable: when this flag is specified, the command fails if one or more rules could not be evaluated because of an internal issue.
By default, the command succeeds.
- --no-wait: by default, the command waits a certain amount of time for the events (tests, static analysis violations) to arrive to Datadog.
This step is important as it makes sure that the events are queryable in Datadog before the rules are executed,
avoiding incorrect evaluation. If, in your pipeline, the job containing the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is
called several minutes after the related events are sent to Datadog, you could skip this waiting time by specifying the `--no-wait` flag.
Note that, if used incorrectly, this flag might result in inaccurate rule evaluations.

> [Custom scopes](#custom-scope) can be added by using the following option one or more times: **--scope**:

Reviewer 4: Here the double hyphen on --scope is also being replaced by an 'en dash': –scope

Reviewer: Yes, we have a [thread](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/18954#discussion_r1266978293) open. I will resolve this one, please comment there in case 🙏

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_example_repository_team_backend.png" alt="Rule scope for example-repository and team backend" style="width:90%;">}}

The rule is evaluated when this command is invoked in a CI pipeline of the `example-repository` repository:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend`

The rule is not evaluated when the following commands are invoked instead:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate`, as it does not define any team.
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:api --scope team:frontend`, as it defines teams different from "backend".

## Edit a rule

You can edit a Quality Gate rule by clicking on the edit icon in the [rules page][2]:

{{< img src="ci/edit_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Edit a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

## Delete a rule

You can delete a Quality Gate rule by clicking on the deletion icon in the [rules page][2]:

{{< img src="ci/delete_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Delete a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

## Permissions

The `quality_gate_rules_write` [permission][1] is required to create and edit Quality Gate rules.
The `quality_gate_rules_read` [permission][1] is required to view Quality Gate rules.

> ## Traceability

Author: ```suggestion
## Track changes in rules
```

You can view information about who created, modified, and deleted Quality Gates rules using Datadog's [Audit Trail][3] product.

> ## Limitations during beta
> 
> There are limitations for the beta version of the Quality Gate product:
> 1. Currently only two rule types can be selected when creating rules: static analysis and tests.
> 2. There are some rare cases in which the Quality Gates result are not correct, specifically in case of internal Datadog issues.
> 

Author: We may not need to call out limitations in the beta (re: internal issues).

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Done!

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: /account_management/rbac/permissions/#ci-visibility

Author: The anchor links on this page don't work unfortunately 😢
```suggestion
[1]: /account_management/rbac/permissions
```

[2]: https://app.datadog.com/ci/quality-gates

> [3]: https://www.datadoghq.com/product/audit-trail

Author: ```suggestion
[3]: /account_management/audit_trail/
```

---
title: Quality Gates
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to use Quality Gates in your pipeline.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_integration/tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Test Visibility"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

{{< callout url="#" header="false" >}}

> Quality Gates are in beta.

Reviewer: Done!

{{< /callout >}}

> Quality Gates allows you to gate your workflows based on signals in Datadog.  You can create two types of rules types: Static Analysis and Tests.

Reviewer 2: here we say "types of rules types" - can we just say "You can create two rule types:"

Reviewer: I have changed it to "two types of rules"

## Datadog-ci gate evaluate

To use quality gates, [`datadog-ci`][7] version should be higher or equal than `2.16.0`.

You can invoke the Quality Gates evaluation by calling the [`datadog-ci gate evaluate`][4] command.

This command:

1. Retrieves all the rules that have [rules scopes](#rule-scope) and [custom scopes](#custom-scope) matching the current pipeline context (repository, branch, or custom scope passed in the command).
2. Evaluates all the matching rules.
3. If one or more blocking rules fail, the command fails as well, blocking the pipeline.

<div class="alert alert-danger"><strong>Note:</strong> for the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)
are sent to Datadog <strong>before</strong> the <code>datadog-ci gate evaluate</code> command is executed.
Otherwise, the rules might have an incorrect behavior due to the absence of the events.
</div>

The command requires the `DATADOG_API_KEY` and `DATADOG_APP_KEY` environment variables to point to your [Datadog API Key][5]
and [Datadog Application Key][6]. Also, you need to set the `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` environment

> variable as `true`. Optionally, you can specify the `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to point to a specific datadog site.
> The default site is US1 (datadoghq.com).

Author: ```suggestion
variable as `true`. Optionally, you can specify the `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to point to a specific [Datadog site][9]. Your Datadog site is {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}.
```

Reviewer: I have included this directly in the command now :) Let me know if that works

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_example_repository_team_backend.png" alt="Rule scope for example-repository and team backend" style="width:90%;">}}

The rule would be evaluated when this command is invoked in a CI pipeline of the `example-repository` repository:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend`

The rule would **not** be evaluated when the following commands are invoked instead:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate`, as it does not define any team.
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:api --scope team:frontend`, as it defines teams different from `backend`.

## Manage rules

To edit a Quality Gate rule, click the **Edit** icon to the right of the **Creator** avatar on the [Quality Gate Rules page][2].

{{< img src="ci/edit_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Edit a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

To delete a Quality Gate rule, click the **Delete** icon next to the **Edit** button on the [Quality Gate Rules page][2]. Alternatively, you can edit the rule and click **Delete Rule**.

{{< img src="ci/delete_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Delete a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

## Permissions

> The [`quality_gate_rules_write` permission][1] is required to create and edit Quality Gate rules.
> The [`quality_gate_rules_read` permission][1] is required to view Quality Gate rules.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, only users with the `quality_gate_rules_write` permission can create and edit Quality Gate rules. Users with the `quality_gate_rules_read` permission can view Quality Gate rules.

For more information, see the [RBAC Permissions documentation][1].
```

Reviewer: I'm ok with changing it in this way, although I wouldn't put the "By default" at the beginning

Reviewer: Changed, let me know if that works

## Track changes in rules

You can view information about who created, modified, and deleted Quality Gates rules in [Audit Trail][3].

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /account_management/rbac/permissions
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/quality-gates
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/audit-trail
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/blob/master/src/commands/gate/README.md
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/application-keys
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/blob/master/README.md

> [8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_integration/guides/flaky_test_management/

Reviewer: Done

---
title: Quality Gates
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to use Quality Gates in your pipeline.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_integration/tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Test Visibility"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

{{< callout url="http://dtdg.co/code-quality" header="false" >}}
Quality Gates are in private beta. To request access, complete the form.
{{< /callout >}}

Quality Gates allows you to gate your workflows based on signals in Datadog. You can create two types of rules: Static Analysis and Tests.
For example, you can block code from being merged if it introduces new [flaky tests][8] or code style violations; issues that wouldn't normally fail your CI/CD pipelines and end up deployed to production.

Using Quality Gates, you have control over what is merged into the default branch, and ultimately on what is deployed.

> This allows you to ensure that the code running in production is meeting high quality standards, reducing incidents and unwanted behaviors.

Reviewer 2: I think insert comma after "reducing incidents"

Reviewer: Mmm some sort of Oxford comma? I don't know, it sounds better without the comma to me as both things start from "reducing"

Author: ```suggestion
This allows you to ensure that the code running in production is meeting high quality standards, reducing incidents, and minimizing unwanted behaviors.
```

## Set up Quality Gates

There are two main steps required to set up and use Quality Gates:

> 1. Create one or more rules in Datadog's UI.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Create one or more rules on the Datadog site.
```

2. Invoke Quality Gates by using the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command in your CI pipeline.

## Create a rule

To create Quality Gates rules for your organization, your user account must have the `quality_gate_rules_write` [permission][1].

1. In Datadog, navigate to [**CI** > **Quality Gate Rules**][2] and click **+ New Rule**.
2. Select the rule type. You can choose between `Static Analysis` and `Test`.
3. Define the rule scope. The rule scope defines when the rule should be evaluated. For example, you can create a rule that it is evaluated only on specific repositories and branches. To define the scope for a rule, switch to `select when to evaluate` and add included or excluded values for the scope. More information on [rule scopes](#rule-scope).
4. Define the rule condition. The rule condition states in which scenario the rule fails, failing the related pipeline (if the rule is blocking). You can select one of the existing rule conditions for the rule type you have selected.

>    The following example shows how to create a static analysis rule that will fail when there are one or more static analysis violations with "error" status and "security" category being introduced in a specific commit:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to create a static analysis rule that fails when there are one or more static analysis violations with "error" status and "security" category being introduced in a specific commit:
```

   {{< img src="ci/qg_rule_condition_sa_errors_security.png" alt="Rule for static analysis security errors" style="width:80%;">}}

> 5. Select whether the rule should block the pipeline or not when it fails. Non-blocking rules are still evaluated, but

Reviewer 2: should we provide a use case for when you might want to use a non-blocking rule? e.g. Non-blocking rules are helpful when rolling out a new rule and wanting to verify its behavior before making it blocking.

Reviewer: Good point, I have added it instead of the second sentence as it seemed very repetitive

   Non-blocking rules are helpful when rolling out a new rule and wanting to verify its behavior before making it blocking.

> 6. Select the time window over which the query will be evaluated.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Select the time window over which the query is evaluated.
```

> 7. Select a rule name that describes the rule that you are creating.

Reviewer 2: Should we add any info here for the rule name? e.g. the rule name will be shown in the CI pipeline logs and GH Checks

Reviewer: As for now we only have logs I don't think it makes much sense to add it 🤔 Although later it will be shown basically everywhere, from checks to rule evaluations

8. Click **Save Rule**.

## Invoking quality gates

To use quality gates, your [`datadog-ci`][7] version should be higher or equal than `2.16.0`.

You can invoke the Quality Gates evaluation by calling the [`datadog-ci gate evaluate`][4] command.

This command:

> 1. Retrieves all the rules that have [rules scopes](#rule-scope) and [custom scopes](#custom-scope) matching the current pipeline context (repository, branch, or custom scope passed in the command).

Reviewer 2: should be "rule scopes", singular

2. Evaluates all the matching rules.
3. If one or more blocking rules fail, the command fails as well, blocking the pipeline.

> <div class="alert alert-danger"><strong>Note:</strong> for the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-danger">For the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)
```

are sent to Datadog <strong>before</strong> the <code>datadog-ci gate evaluate</code> command is executed.

> Otherwise, the rules might have an incorrect behavior due to the absence of the events.

Reviewer 2: should we just say explicitly that we recommend adding the CLI command as the final job in your pipeline definition?

Reviewer: Mmm not really, they can add it also in the middle of the pipeline. Actually, I think a future use case for Quality Gates is to stop further steps to be executed if the gate doesn't pass. Some sort of approvals based on rules

<pre>
<code>
DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=true DATADOG_SITE={{< region-param key="dd_site" >}} DATADOG_API_KEY=&lt;API_KEY&gt; DATADOG_APP_KEY=&lt;APP_KEY&gt; datadog-ci gate evaluate
</code>
</pre>

The behavior of the command can be modified using the following flags:
- `--fail-on-empty`: when this flag is specified, the command fails if no matching rules were found in Datadog
based on the current pipeline context. By default, the command succeeds.
- `--fail-if-unavailable`: when this flag is specified, the command fails if one or more rules could not be evaluated because of an internal issue.
By default, the command succeeds.
- `--no-wait`: by default, the command waits a certain amount of time for the events (tests, static analysis violations) to arrive to Datadog.
This step is important as it makes sure that the events are queryable in Datadog before the rules are executed,
avoiding incorrect evaluations. If, in your pipeline, the job containing the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is
called several minutes after the related events are sent to Datadog, you could skip this waiting time by specifying the `--no-wait` flag.

> Note that, if used incorrectly, this flag might result in inaccurate rule evaluations.

Author: ```suggestion
Iif used incorrectly, this flag may result in inaccurate rule evaluations.
```

[Custom scopes](#custom-scope) can be added by using the following option one or more times: `--scope`:

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend --scope team:frontend
{{< /code-block >}}

The command logs can be examined to understand what was the overall gate evaluation status, along with information
about all the rules that were evaluated.

{{< img src="ci/datadog_ci_gate_evaluate_logs.png" alt="Datadog-ci gate evaluate logs" style="width:90%;">}}

## Rule scope

When creating a rule, you can define a scope, which states when the rule should be evaluated. If the rule scope is
set to `always evaluate`, the rule is evaluated on all repositories and branches.

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_always_evaluate.png" alt="Rule scope for rules always evaluated" style="width:90%;">}}

> The rules, which have a matching scope to the context of the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command, are evaluated.

Reviewer 4: I think that the first comma should be there.

For each scope (for example, `branch`), you can either select included or excluded values.
When included values are selected, the rule is evaluated if one or more included values are part of the command context.
When excluded values are selected, the rule is evaluated if the excluded values are not part of the command context.

> For example, to create a rule that is evaluated in all branches but `main` of the `example-repository` repository, you can define the following scope:

Reviewer 2: instead of "but" `main`, would say "except `main`"

{{< img src="ci/scope_not_main_example_repository.png" alt="Rule scope for example-repository and not main branch" style="width:90%;">}}

> If a rule does not contain a scope, it is evaluated for all values for that scope.

Reviewer 2: to make this clearer I would say, "If a rule doesn't explicitly include a certain type of scope, it is evaluated for any value of that particular type."

Reviewer: It's weird to see the word "type" here. Maybe scope name? I think in general the next sentence/example makes it clear

- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend`

The rule would **not** be evaluated when the following commands are invoked instead:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate`, as it does not define any team.
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:api --scope team:frontend`, as it defines teams different from `backend`.

## Manage rules

To edit a Quality Gate rule, click the **Edit** icon to the right of the **Creator** avatar on the [Quality Gate Rules page][2].

{{< img src="ci/edit_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Edit a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

To delete a Quality Gate rule, click the **Delete** icon next to the **Edit** button on the [Quality Gate Rules page][2]. Alternatively, you can edit the rule and click **Delete Rule**.

{{< img src="ci/delete_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Delete a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

## Permissions

Only users with the `quality_gate_rules_write` permission can create and edit Quality Gate rules. Users with the `quality_gate_rules_read` permission can view Quality Gate rules.
For more information, see the [RBAC Permissions documentation][1].

## Track changes in rules

> You can view information about who created, modified, and deleted Quality Gates rules in [Audit Trail][3].

Reviewer 4: Maybe we could redirect to the audit trails docs for CI Visibility, in which we specify the query needed to filter Quality Gate events. For now it's only in [staging](https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/rodrimendoza/adding-ci-visibility-audit-events-docs/account_management/audit_trail/events/#ci-visibility-events)

Reviewer: This is what you'll do next right? Could you also update this link as part of that work? I think it would be better

Reviewer 4: Ok, great!

---
title: Quality Gates
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to use Quality Gates in your pipeline.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_integration/tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Test Visibility"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

{{< callout url="#" header="false" >}}
Quality Gates are in beta.
{{< /callout >}}

Quality Gates allows you to gate your workflows based on signals in Datadog.

> For example, you can block code from being merged if it introduces new [flaky tests][8], even if the tests are passing.

Reviewer 5: can we provide more examples to promote the feature better?

Reviewer 2: ... if it introduces new flaky tests or code style violations; issues that wouldn't normally fail your CI/CD pipelines and end up deployed to production.

Reviewer: I have changed the sentence as Bryan mentioned. @liashenko Do you think that's ok on your side?

Using Quality Gates, you have control over what is merged into the default branch, and ultimately on what is deployed.
This allows you to ensure that the code running in production is meeting high quality standards, reducing incidents and unwanted behaviors.

## Set up Quality Gates

There are two main steps required to set up Quality Gates:

> 1. Create one or more rules.

Author: Does this work instead?

> 1. Create one or more rules.

Reviewer: I would prefer to mention Datadog here, as CI Visibility might be unknown to clients and can refer to anything basically. I will change it to:

Create one or more rules in Datadog's UI. I will not add a link because I want clients to go in the section below instead of clicking on the link and start creating rules without context.

> 1. Create one or more rules.

Reviewer: Let me know if this works. I'll resolve the comment for now.

2. Add the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command in your CI pipeline.

## Create a rule

To create Quality Gates rules for your organization, your user account must have the `quality_gate_rules_write` [permission][1].

> 1. In Datadog, navigate to [**CI** > **Quality Gate Rules**][2] and click **+ New Rule**.

Reviewer 5: we can add a link for "New Rule" as well, wdyt?

Author: Sounds good, do you have it handy?

Reviewer: I can add it there, but I don't know if it will help much. Also, I'm not sure what it will show if customers won't have the permission to create rules, whereas the main rules page handles that well.

Reviewer 5: ok, I agree that it might be confusing for users without permissions

2. Select the rule type. You can choose between `Static Analysis` and `Test`.

> 3. Define the rule scope. The rule scope defines when the rules should be evaluated. For example, you can scope a rule so that it is evaluated only on specific repositories and branches. To define the scope for a rule, switch to `select when to evaluate` and add included or excluded values for the scope name. More information on [rule scopes](#rule-scope).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. Define the rule scope. The rule scope defines when the rule should be evaluated. For example, you can scope a rule so that it is evaluated only on specific repositories and branches. To define the scope for a rule, switch to `select when to evaluate` and add included or excluded values for the scope name. More information on [rule scopes](#rule-scope).
```

> 3. Define the rule scope. The rule scope defines when the rules should be evaluated. For example, you can scope a rule so that it is evaluated only on specific repositories and branches. To define the scope for a rule, switch to `select when to evaluate` and add included or excluded values for the scope name. More information on [rule scopes](#rule-scope).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. Define the rule scope. The rule scope defines when the rules should be evaluated. For example, you can create a rule that it is evaluated only on specific repositories and branches. To define the scope for a rule, switch to `select when to evaluate` and add included or excluded values for the scope. More information on [rule scopes](#rule-scope).
```

> 4. Define the rule condition. The rule condition states in which scenario the rule fails, failing the related pipeline as well. You can select one of the existing rule conditions for the rule type you have selected.

Reviewer 4: `'...failing the related pipeline as well.'`
Actually it would also depend on the blocking / non-blocking definition, right? In fact you are mentioning it in the following point, so it could be slightly confusing.

> 4. Define the rule condition. The rule condition states in which scenario the rule fails, failing the related pipeline as well. You can select one of the existing rule conditions for the rule type you have selected.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
4. Define the rule condition. The rule condition states in which scenario the rule fails, failing the related pipeline (if the rule is blocking). You can select one of the existing rule conditions for the rule type you have selected.
```

   The following example shows how to create a static analysis rule that will fail when there are one or more static analysis violations with "error" status and "security" category being introduced in a specific commit:

   {{< img src="ci/qg_rule_condition_sa_errors_security.png" alt="Rule for static analysis security errors" style="width:80%;">}}

5. Select whether the rule should block the pipeline or not when it fails. Non-blocking rules are still evaluated, but
they do not block the pipeline when they fail.
6. Select a rule name that describes the rule that you are creating.

> 7. Click **Save Rule**.

Reviewer 4: Maybe a short mention about setting the evaluation window step?

A rule starts being evaluated as soon as it is created.

## Datadog-ci gate evaluate

To use quality gates, [`datadog-ci`][7] version should be higher or equal than `2.16.0`.

You can invoke the Quality Gates evaluation by calling the [`datadog-ci gate evaluate`][4] command.

This command:

1. Retrieves all the impacted rules based on the current pipeline context (branch, repository).
The rules that are retrieved vary based on the pipeline context, the [rules scopes](#rule-scope) and eventual [custom scopes](#custom-scope).

> 2. Evaluates all the impacted rules.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. Evaluates all the matching rules.
```

<div class="alert alert-danger"><strong>Note:</strong> for the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)
are sent to Datadog <strong>before</strong> the <code>datadog-ci gate evaluate</code> command is executed.
Otherwise, the rules might have an incorrect behavior due to the absence of the events.
</div>

The command requires the `DATADOG_API_KEY` and `DATADOG_APP_KEY` environment variables to point to your [Datadog API Key][5]
and [Datadog Application Key][6]. Also, you need to set the `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` environment
variable as `true`. Optionally, you can specify the `DATADOG_SITE` environment variable to point to a specific datadog site.
The default site is US1 (datadoghq.com).

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=true DATADOG_API_KEY=<API_KEY> DATADOG_APP_KEY=<APP_KEY> datadog-ci gate evaluate
{{< /code-block >}}

The behavior of the command can be modified using the following flags:
- **--fail-on-empty**: when this flag is specified, the command fails if no matching rules were found in Datadog
based on the current command scope. By default, the command succeeds.

> - **--fail-if-unavailable**: when this flag is specified, the command fails if one or more rules could not be evaluated.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **--fail-if-unavailable**: when this flag is specified, the command fails if one or more rules could not be evaluated because of an internal issue.
```

By default, the command succeeds.
- **--no-wait**: by default, the command waits a certain amount of time for the events (tests, static analysis violations) to arrive to Datadog.
This step is important as it makes sure that the events are queryable in Datadog before the rules are executed,
avoiding incorrect evaluation. If, in your pipeline, the job containing the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is
called several minutes after the related events are sent to Datadog, you could skip this waiting time by specifying the `--no-wait` flag.
Note that, if used incorrectly, this flag might result in inaccurate rule evaluations.

[Custom scopes](#custom-scope) can be added by using the following option one or more times: **--scope**:

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend --scope team:frontend
{{< /code-block >}}

The command logs can be examined to understand what was the overall gate evaluation status, along with information
about all the rules that were evaluated.

{{< img src="ci/datadog_ci_gate_evaluate_logs.png" alt="Datadog-ci gate evaluate logs" style="width:90%;">}}

## Rule scope

> When creating a rule, you can define its scope, which states when it should be evaluated.
> The rule scope is then checked based on the context passed by the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command to understand whether the rule should be evaluated or not.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When creating a rule, you can define a scope, which states when the rule should be evaluated. 
The rules, which have a matching scope to the context of the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command, are evaluated. 
```

> For each scope name (for example, "branch"), you can either select included or excluded values.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For each scope (for example, "branch"), you can either select included or excluded values.
```

When included values are selected, the rule is evaluated if one or more included values are part of the command context.

> When excluded values are selected, the rule is evaluated if none of the excluded values are part of the command context.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When excluded values are selected, the rule is evaluated if the excluded values are not part of the command context.
```
maybe it's just me, but this way it reads easier

For example, to create a rule that is evaluated in all branches but `main` of the `example-repository` repository, you can define the following scope:

{{< img src="ci/scope_not_main_example_repository.png" alt="Rule scope for example-repository and not main branch" style="width:90%;">}}

If a rule does not contain a scope name, it is evaluated for all values of that scope name.
For example, if a rule does not contain the `repository` scope, it is evaluated for all repositories. If the rule scope is

> set to `always evaluate`, the rule is evaluated on all repositories and branches.

Reviewer 5: should we move it somewhere in the beginning of the section, because it's what we show by default in the UI?

Reviewer: I have moved this to the beginning. I'll check later if it's better there

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_always_evaluate.png" alt="Rule scope for rules always evaluated" style="width:90%;">}}

### Custom scope

In addition to branch and repository, you can define custom scope names to further filter rules that are evaluated for a specific CI pipeline.

> Custom scopes can be added when creating a rule in the following way:

Author: ```suggestion
To add a custom scope when creating a rule:

```

> 1. Click on **+ Add Filter** and select **Custom Scope**

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click **+ Add Filter** and select **Custom Scope**
```

2. Define the scope name, for example, `team`.

> 3. Define the scope included or excluded values.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Define the scope's included or excluded values.
```

> Differently from "branch" and "repository" scopes, custom scopes need to be provided in the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command using the **--scope** option.

Author: ```suggestion
Unliked the `branch` and `repository` scopes, custom scopes need to be provided in the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command using the **--scope** option.
```

Reviewer: I have changed "Unliked" to "Unlike". I guess that's what you meant?

> For example, you can create a rule that is evaluated for the repository `example-repository` but only when the team is `backend`:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, you can create a rule that is evaluated for the `example-repository` repository but only when the team is `backend`:
```

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_example_repository_team_backend.png" alt="Rule scope for example-repository and team backend" style="width:90%;">}}

The rule would be evaluated when this command is invoked in a CI pipeline of the `example-repository` repository:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend`

The rule would **not** be evaluated when the following commands are invoked instead:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate`, as it does not define any team.
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:api --scope team:frontend`, as it defines teams different from `backend`.

> ## Edit a rule
> 
> You can edit a Quality Gate rule by clicking on the edit icon in the [rules page][2]:
> 
> {{< img src="ci/edit_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Edit a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}
> 
> ## Delete a rule
> 
> You can delete a Quality Gate rule by clicking on the deletion icon in the [rules page][2]
> 
> {{< img src="ci/delete_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Delete a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}
> 
> or by editing the rule and clicking **Delete Rule** at the end of the page.

Author: ```suggestion
## Manage rules

To edit a Quality Gate rule, click the **Edit** icon to the right of the **Creator** avatar on the [Quality Gate Rules page][2].

{{< img src="ci/edit_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Edit a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

To edit a Quality Gate rule, click the **Delete** icon next to the **Edit** button on the [Quality Gate Rules page][2]. Alternatively, you can edit the rule and click **Delete Rule**.

{{< img src="ci/delete_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Delete a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}
```

---
title: Quality Gates
kind: documentation
is_beta: true
description: Learn how to create GitHub Checks based on Quality Gates Rules in your pipeline.
is_beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_integration/tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Test Visibility"
---

## Overview

> {{< callout url="#" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< callout url="#" header="false" >}}
```

Quality Gates Rules are in beta.
{{< /callout >}}

> Quality Gates use GitHub Checks to block or unblock a CI/CD pipeline.

Author: ```suggestion
Quality Gates Rules use GitHub Checks to block or unblock a CI/CD pipeline.
```

This step is important as it makes sure that the events are queryable in Datadog before the rules are executed,
avoiding incorrect evaluations. If, in your pipeline, the job containing the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is
called several minutes after the related events are sent to Datadog, you could skip this waiting time by specifying the `--no-wait` flag.

> Iif used incorrectly, this flag may result in inaccurate rule evaluations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If used incorrectly, this flag may result in inaccurate rule evaluations.
```
